# Lab exercise 4 - Artifical Neural Networks

## Task a)

### Questions:
1. What are `step` in activation function (step 2)
2. are `X` and `W` functions, since in `step 2 (activation)` they take in iteration `p`
3. Should `Y` be a list holding all calculated Y's since Y also takes in P?
4. What is `p` is it the same as `x` ? I need help to understand how to do step 2, activation.

### Notes from reading

#### Sign function
Sign is one of many activation functions. It's also a hard limit function.
All it actually does is;
Computes the weighted sum of the input signals and compares the result with a threshold value, ğœ­.

If the net unout is less than the threshold, the neuron outpus is -1. But if the net input is greater than or equal to the threshold, the neouron becomes activated and itis output attains a vaue +1.

_func_:

X = âˆ‘<sub>i=1</sub><sup>n</sup> X<sub>i</sub>\* W<sub>i</sub>

Y = +1 if X >= ğœ­ OR Y = -1 if X < ğœ­

Another way of writing the function is

Y = sign[ âˆ‘<sub>i=1</sub><sup>n</sup> X<sub>i</sub>\* W<sub>i</sub> - ğœ­ ]


#### X<sub>i</sub>, W<sub>i</sub> and n
X<sub>i</sub> is the value of input i
W<sub>i</sub> is the weight of input i
n is the number of neuron inputs
y = is the output of the neuron


#### P - iteration
`P` represents the pth training example presented to the perceptron.


#### Error function:
`e(P) = Y<sub>d</sub>(P) - Y(P)`, where P = 1,2,3,....


### Perceptron Learning Rule
w<sub>i</sub>(p + 1) = w<sub>i</sub>(p) + ğ›‚ * x<sub>i</sub>(p) * e(p)

### ğ›‚
The learning rate a positive constant less than unity.

### Epoch
Epoch, en iterasjon gjennom treningsettet


# Perceptron vs Multilayer Neural Network
In a perceptron, there is only one weight for each input and only one output.

But in the multilayer etwork, there are many weights, each of which contributes to more than one output.

## Backpropagation
In a back-propagation neural network, the learning algorithm has two phases.
1. a training input pattern is presented to the network input layer.
The network then propagates the input pattern from layer to layer until the output pattern is generated by the output layer.

2. If this pattern is different from the desired output, an ERROR is calculated and then prpagated backwards through the network from the output layer to the input layer.
The weights are modified as the error is propagated.

## Fully connected
That is, every neuron in each layer is connected to every other neuron in the adjacent forward layer.

# Multilayer neural network:
### Calculate output
A neuron determines its output in a manner similiar to Rosenblatt's perception.
First, it computes the net weighted input as before: X = The sum of (xi * wi), for all inputs i (number of features/i = n).

Then the value X is passed into the activation function. i.e a sigmoid function.


### Calculating the output
X = sum (xi * wi)  if there is a bias X += bias * theta

if X is bigger or equal to theta, X is 1, else X is 0
Then since we use sigmoid Y =   X / 1 + e^x  





***
Continue reading from  Page 177, What about the learning law used in the back-propagation networks?
***

